greetings in this video I would like to
show you some samples of shoes that you
can make following the directions and
the patterns in the slow shoes for
children's book so here's some samples
of the different kind of styles we'll be
making here so I call this kind of an
espadrille style has two different
pieces the heel piece that goes around
back here then this is the the vamp over
the front of the foot
there's elastic through a channel back
here and a colorful band across the
instep here's a shoe that's made from
the same pattern but this gives you an
idea of the incredible variety that is
possible of course different colors this
is suede this is made with a kind of
leather called eco Pelle which is tanned
and dyed with natural materials and has
a little stitched on applique and the
elastic has a little slide there on it
so that it can be adjusted another style
is the mary-jane
and of course this can be done in
unlimited ways as well on this sample I
asked a neighbor girl to make me a
little rubber stamp or make me a little
picture from nature and she drew this
little flower I had it made into a stamp
at Simon stamps locally but there might
I'm sure there are many other places to
get these little stamps made and and
then I stamped it on the leather made of
shoes and I gave her the stamp so she
can make stationery or whatever else
she'd like using that same kind of a
logo so we've got an elastic strap here
of course it can be leather thong lace
it can have be a t-strap it can have
multiple straps across it like some
styles that you see this day they're all
stitch downs however you can see that
they turn out so it's a very simple
process and they turn out and then
they're stitched right through this
natural rubber sewing I like the sewing
in this quarter inch thickness because
you can cut it with scissors it's you
can the child can feel the ground
underneath their feet just as if they
were barefooted but of course they're
protected there's a really amazing
cushioning that comes from this natural
rubber so that's my suggestion that of
the the best thing that I found to use
but I'm sure that there are other
possibilities I smudged a little bit on
the stamping of this leather so I put a
little bit of thumb stitching over it
and actually people have said that they
really like that so so it's another
example of ways that you can embellish
would be with with stitching here's a
couple of sandals they can be open-toed
or have some cut cutouts in the front to
let more air in for them to be a little
cooler made the same stitch down way
here we have a separate heel section and
has slits in it for a thumb to go
through or lace to go through this one
has velcro strap around it and so see
how that fastens there onto the Derby so
this is a really really nice shoe to be
able to make for your child
certainly a shoe that boys like but this
could be so cute for girls as well
I can just see it with with tights in
some really fun color and as with the
Mary Jane's as with any of these shoes
you know the embellishment possibilities
are pretty pretty broad here I oh I put
a little piece of leather inside there
to give the toe kind of a rounded shape
that it's instead of just showing the
shape of the toes its holds up a little
bit that's optional whether that matters
to you or not but I wanted to try it and
to hold that piece inside I stitched
along the top edge of it this it could
also be an additional color that's put
on a pleather that's put on the outside
of the shoe and then stitched over that
so there really is an opportunity to
have lots of fun with color and
materials and then have a little heel
cap back here so that gives it some some
added support and then this is the boot
that's kind of representing all the
kinds of fiber that you can use it's you
making this is handmade felt and done to
the snug boot that's what I call it has
velcro fastener here but these can be
made out of recycled sweaters that have
been felted and in the washing machine
and then dried and recycled coats I
really like the recycled coat idea
there's more lot more of those kinds of
old fashioned from the 50s or 60s or 70s
coats that are really not very desirable
to be worn these days kind of high
armpits and and but they've got some
bright nice colors so those coats if it
seems like a coat that nobody would
actually be drawn to where you can put
it in the wash machine with the
water and some soap agitated a few a
couple cycles put in the dryer and you
can have a nice felted wool and which
can be embellished with appliquéd is
made of the the felted wool from other
coats or you can mix handmade felt in
with pieces of it with this recycled
coat boot so you can imagine like if a
little medallion were cut out of this
piece of felt and stitching on the front
of a shoe made from the coats that it
would add a really beautiful touch